The next topic we're going to
jump into is structured data.
So structured data is,
I know it's a generic term here, but
in this context,
stuff that you add to your
HTML body usually so
that you can get a machine readable
equivalent of some complex
items that you have there.
So this is information that
crawlers are already seeking out,
like the name of an organization or
who owns a company.
What Twitter accounts
are associated with the company?
Where's their Facebook account?
What's their phone number?
So we're already trying to like,
there's a need to build this information.
And this is a way to make sure that
everything ends up being correct.
There are a couple different
ways of defining this metadata.
And so, some of them involve
setting special HTML attributes
on the HTML that represents
this item itself and your UI.
Some of them involve little microformats,
where you have to really get
familiar with some new schema.
It seems like the way forward is
to use this syntax called JSON-LD.
So it is a specific schema of
JSON it will look like JSON, and
it ends up going in
a script tag like this.
So in terms of what this gets us,
quite a few things and it's really up
to the developer of the app consuming
this HTML to decide what to do with it.
So an example is you can
specify details about
a calendar event in
an HTML email to Google.
And this is where this RSVP opportunity
happens, right in your email.
So this is not something that
Google Calendar has like a monopoly on.
You can add metadata right in the HTML
email and you'll get stuff like this.
If you've been using GitHub a lot, you
might see that when you get a notification
about a pull request,
there's a little view pull request item.
So this all comes from additional
metadata and schema.org stuff,
which is this flavor of
metadata I'm talking about.
This is the way to go.
And the main advantage you get here, so
we've gone past like trying to
crawl up the search results and
make sure that links are shared
in its rich away as possible.
This this issue here has to do with
kind of getting things as correct
as they possibly could be, so
that things are spelled the way
they're supposed to be spelled.
If front end masters, maybe some people
don't know whether it's one word or
two words or the E and and is capitalized,
but it's all smushed together.
And then,
you can have a consistent brand image
by being the one that specifies these
values in this structured data.
So that's why I say you have more
control over the way you look
in these applications.
So it does similar to the social metadata
we've been working with, it does end up
enriching the way your search result
comes up, primarily on mobile devices.
So I took some screenshots of the a search
result that involves events data.
And you can see, you've got the name
of the event, the date, and the venue.
And you can tap in each of those,
those are each sort of addressable items,
each with their own URL, so that would
be the way that you build this out.
On the products example here,
you can see we have a rating and
a price, and an indication of
whether it's in stock or not.
And I would,
part of me wants to figure out whether
how often that's updated, right?
That might be a fluctuating value there.
Yes, Mark,
>> With the ratings,
how does Google verify that
those are not just a 100
people rated this five stars and
nobody actually did?
>> So you have to point to
an authoritative authoritative source for
ratings.
So you don't just state that your rating
is five stars, but you would rather say,
I wish to,
like this is my official business name.
And I'm connecting to this
Platform of record for ratings and
it could be like Google or Facebook's
reviews or the Better Business Bureau.
I'm not sure which ones are whitelisted,
but there is a whitelist.
So that only true like community
source ratings are there.
And for that matter,
you need to be able to tap on that and
to see the ratings themselves.
So if you really care about Google and
search results, I would make sure that you
try to make sure your Google ratings
are as good as they possibly could be,
because that is going to be
the easiest one to wire up to.
But you can't simply just say like,
yeah, five out of five stars, trust me.
And down here for reviews,
we can see that we've again got ratings.
And this one comes from
within the app itself.
And so, this has probably gone through
some sort of approval process where you
can tap on that and
see 160,000 reads or 160,000 votes.
I mean, that's quite a lot.
But this is an excerpt of one
review you get to see down there.
And I think part of this is also that
you wanna be able to invite customers
to click on their views or tap on their
views, and see what what's this all about.
And it's sort of a sign that something's
off if it's a non-interactive thing.
Almost the same way that like an SSL
seal that's just an image like, or
a Better Business Bureau badge on your
site that's like not linking to your
actual Better Business Bureau record.
When I see that I immediately check
to see if I'm on HTTPS or not.
I realized that I'm gonna trap and
start looking around for other signs.
So tomorrow I want to show to you recipes
just like Pinterest we get a little
bit of that.
You see it's far less rich because
Google's trying to be more generalized
than Pinterest, which is very much
oriented towards particular community and
recipes are a big part of, where that
community has gravitated towards.
And then finally,
sorry I miss titled this here shouldn't
be products it should be courses.
Courses is one of the things
that Google has provided,
like first class support for.
And you can see here like these are the
Arduino courses that are available on
Coursera.
And we've got a couple different
items here that have to do
with this particular query.
You see, they haven't done a very
good job with their breadcrumbs.
That's one thing.
But you can see that the producer
of each course is listed here,
at least the first part of a description
and of course, the title is there.
And again, these arrows to the right
indicate they're each addressable items,
meaning they each have a URL, you could
visit a page and it is about that course.
So these are all things they will
typically only show up if you're on
a mobile device, right?
Because they're trying to make it so
that mobile search results
are as engaging as possible.
And that's why all of these look
sort of like mobile things.
So one that everyone should be
implementing is breadcrumbs.
And you notice that Coursera had
like a query pram in their little
breadcrumb link over here that query
equals Arduino, that's not human readable.
That's not nice.
That's like code surfacing in the UI for
the user, which is bad.
So here with metadata, we have the ability
to control the way we look here.
And so
you see I've got like three levels here.
One is the root of my web application,
and then a section for courses and
then an individual course.
That's a nice human readable breadcrumb
there that helps Google understand
how my site is structured.
And I've given them hints as to like
the hierarchy of things that I've built.
So this is not an enriched card except for
the breadcrumb here.
This is not a course card.
So you may wonder like,
so this is the JSON,
this is the first time you're seeing it.
Where can I look to see
what is required for
all of these different entities,
and it's not simple.
What you're looking at here
is just breadcrumbs and
it's a lot, like it goes way
below this bottom of the slide.
It is pretty verbose as JSON
of this type tends to be.
So there is a source of truth for where
you can look to see like exactly how these
objects should appear,
and it is schema.org.
So if we go down this huge
list of schemas they provide,
provide like a standard shape for.
And shape, you can think of that as
like the names of the properties and
the types expected in
the values of those properties.
You can see here we've got like, there's
course, there's a creative work series.
So if you had a series of movies, like
Star Wars would be a series of movies that
has a bunch of individual
movies associated with it.
We've got further down
a software application.
We've got a movie up top there.
We've got a publication issue and
a publication volume.
So lots and
lots of different things, events.
And you can see there are even
subtypes of these events.
They have a schema for a festival
versus a literary and music event.
So it is a really granular and deep.
You won't find things that can read
all of these different schemas.
Even Google has a main contributor
to this community effort to define
what all of these objects look like.
They only support like 10 or
12 of them for now.
But they sort of,
it's good to have the definition
initiative out ahead of like
what we need the standard to be.
So we've got reservations,
which that's used in Gmail for
a restaurant reservation,
something like that.
So they can see like it is at
this time at this location.
And so on and so on and so on.
Place of worship, taxi stand,
I bet you didn't know that they
needed to be standardized and so on.
So if we look at one of
these individual schemas,
this is the name of the property
on the left, the expected type.
So everything that is not just text as
you see some of these are our text here.
Those are expected to be
other schema.org objects.
So when we see,
if we go down a little bit more,
if we see like founder is supposed
to be an organization or person.
That's gonna be a nested
object inside your
JSON with a complete
description of that thing.
Now you'll look at organization and
you might see that like that even goes
deeper in their sub-nested items there.
You can just use your discretion
as to when you should stop.
I don't see really any value in going,
unless it's a really important
piece of information that I'm trying to
proliferate as far as I possibly can.
I don't go more than
one nested level deep.